---
title: "A Human Metaverse"
date: 2022-09-13T21:40:07-04:00
draft: false
---
Humanity in the Metaverse
	An innovative new technology is on the rise. It promises bright futures for developers, artists, writers— all aspiring creators. A decentralized, open-source wonderland. It’s called The Internet; an innovation to connectedness rivaled only by the laying of the transcontinental railroad. At least, that’s what was promised. Not too soon after its inception, it transformed from a human platform, to a data extraction platform. Corporations needed increasingly more specific user data to advertise more effectively. Once they could collect data effectively, the only limitation to their data mining was the amount of time people spent online. Whole fields of academic study are now devoted to the psychological tricks to keep your eyes, attention, and wallet locked into the net. Our current social media landscape is designed to disrupt any and all natural rhythms that keep our moods inhibited, making us angry or self-conscious, and more willing to stay locked in. That brings us to the metaverse. The promise of a decentralized, creative platform is once again at our fingertips. Ensuring that the metaverse stays this way is up to us. A free, open, and safe metaverse is one that prioritizes human-to-human connections, treats itself as a place to visit, not a world to virtually doom-scroll all night, and places checks and balances on itself to ensure one’s data is used only with their consent.
	
	Human-to-human interaction seems impossible to replicate virtually. We barely understand all the minutiae of our interactions that make them so unique in the first place — our subconscious reading of body language, breath patterns, pupil dilation, etc. Even on principle, using a new virtual world to amend the flaws baked into our current virtual world is like curbing the side effects of adderall with melatonin supplements. The corporations causing these problems today are now the ones attempting to gain first-to-market advantage. Shifting the balance even further in their favor. This will come with a continuation of their data mining expeditions. Consistent and constant data capture will be the modus operandi of the metaverse. Data from your movement within the verse, tracking places you’ve gone and how long you stayed there. Eye trackers (already implemented into some headsets) to see exactly what advertisements are the most catching. The metaverse will be filled with its own algorithms to promote worlds, servers, or sponsored experiences. 
	
	That’s not to say all this data collection is inherently bad. Some people will find that these practices improve their life more than it hinders it. However, whether you want a fully curated experience or not, you should have that choice. Consent and compensation ought to be the overarching structure to the metaverse. You should have clear communication from the company about exactly what data is being collected before you consent to these privacy/data terms. To ensure freedom and openness corporations ought to compensate users for the data they collect from them. The current players in the metaverse have profit first motives. If we must stick within our rigid economic structure of infinite growth and profit first, some corporations will start charging for their services to make up for the money they are paying out. I see this as a cost most people would be willing to bear for more freedom and openness about their data. This is the best approach to give corporations what they want, while also allowing people to retain their autonomy and freedom when in the metaverse.
	
	Platforms like Twitter and Facebook have full control over what gets posted on their site, and I see this practice moving into the metaverse. The metaverse will be the hyperlink between these different platforms, corners, niches and communities. It is then up to these communities to be as free and open as they intend. Following in the human first mindset, these virtual medias are to socialize and connect, not to live in. To avoid seclusion into our own thought bubbles, outside of these niches we must have long form discussions, incentivise interconnectedness, and remain as freely expressive as possible.
	
	Digital technologies may not be the solutions to the problems of our digital age. The premise of needing a parallel universe where we can interact with humans may not be needed if we just started… interacting with humans. However, if this is the inevitable future ahead of us, we have to ensure that it is safe, open, and free. We have to approach the metaverse with humanity and intentional connectedness, and not let it become yet another social media escape where our emotions run rampant and our privacy is breached and exploited. It’s up to us, we decide how we spend our time, where we put our money, and if we have the discipline to build communities strong enough to be the influence we want to see in the world.

